.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsb.params 5 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsb.params\fR
.SS \fB\fROverview
.BR
The lsb.params file defines general parameters used by openlava Batch.
This file contains only one section, named Parameters. MBD uses
lsb.params for initialization. The file is optional. If not present, the
openlava-defined defaults are assumed.
.PP
Some of the parameters that can be defined in lsb.params control
timing within the openlava Batch system. The default settings provide good
throughput for long-running batch jobs while adding a minimum of
processing overhead in the batch daemons.
.SS Contents
.BR
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Parameters Section
.RE
.SH Parameters Section
.BR
This section and all the keywords in this section are optional. If
keywords are not present, openlava Batch assumes default values for the
corresponding keywords. The valid keywords for this section are:
.SH ABS_RUNLIMIT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBABS_RUNLIMIT = y | Y\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Specify y or Y to use the absolute run time for controlling the job run limit.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined. The normalized job run time is used for the job run limit.
.SH ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE = \fR\fIdays\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Enables automatic archiving of openlava accounting log files, and specifies
the archive interval. openlava archives the current log file if the length of
time from its creation date exceeds the specified number of days.
.SS See Also
.BR
ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE also enables automatic archiving.
.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE enables automatic deletion of the
archives.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined (no limit to the age of lsb.acct).
.SH ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE = \fR\fIkilobytes\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Enables automatic archiving of openlava accounting log files, and specifies
the archive threshold. openlava archives the current log file if its size exceeds
the specified number of kilobytes.
.SS See Also
.BR
ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE also enables automatic archiving.
.PP
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE enables automatic deletion of the
archives.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined (no limit to the size of lsb.acct).
.SH CLEAN_PERIOD
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBCLEAN_PERIOD\fR \fB=\fR \fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.BR
For non-repetitive jobs, the amount of time that job records for jobs that
have finished or have been killed are kept in MBD core memory after
they have finished.
.PP
Users can still see all jobs after they have finished using the \fBbjobs\fR
command. For jobs that finished more than CLEAN_PERIOD seconds
ago, use the \fBbhist\fR command.
.SS Default
.BR
3600 (1 hour).
.SH DEFAULT_HOST_SPEC
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBDEFAULT_HOST_SPEC =\fR \fIhost_name | host_model\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The default CPU time normalization host for the cluster.
.PP
The CPU factor of the specified host or host model will be used to
normalize the CPU time limit of all jobs in the cluster, unless the CPU
time normalization host is specified at the queue or job level.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.SH DEFAULT_PROJECT
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBDEFAULT_PROJECT\fR \fB=\fR \fIproject_name\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The name of the default project. Specify any string.
.PP
When you submit a job without specifying any project name, and the
environment variable LSB_DEFAULTPROJECT is not set, openlava
automatically assigns the job to this project.
.SS Default
.BR
default
.SH DEFAULT_QUEUE
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBDEFAULT_QUEUE\fR \fB=\fR \fIqueue_name \fR...
.SS Description
.BR
Space-separated list of candidate default queues (candidates must
already be defined in lsb.queues).
.PP
When you submit a job to openlava without explicitly specifying a queue,
and the environment variable LSB_DEFAULTQUEUE is not set, openlava puts
the job in the first queue in this list that satisfies the job's specifications
subject to other restrictions, such as requested hosts, queue status, etc.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined. When a user submits a job to openlava without explicitly
specifying a queue, and there are no candidate default queues defined
(by this parameter or by the user's environment variable
LSB_DEFAULTQUEUE), openlava automatically creates a new queue named
default, using the default configuration, and submits the job to that
queue.
.SH DISABLE_UACCT_MAP
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBDISABLE_UACCT_MAP = y | Y\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Specify y or Y to disable user-level account mapping.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.SH  HIST_MINUTES
.BR
The number of minutes the fairshare schedule performs the decay of accumulated
number of used slots per user in a fairshare tree. The number of running slots
is decreased ten times each \fBHIST_MINUTES\fR. This number is used to sort the
tree by priority, smaller the number less important is the history os used slots.
The default value is two hours.
.BR
.SH JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBJOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL =\fR \fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The number of dispatch turns to wait after dispatching a job to a host,
before dispatching a second job to the same host. By default, a dispatch
turn lasts 60 seconds (MBD_SLEEP_TIME in lsb.params).
.PP
If 0 (zero), a host may accept more than one job in each job dispatching
interval. By default, there is no limit to the total number of jobs that can
run on a host, so if this parameter is set to 0, a very large number of
jobs might be dispatched to a host all at once. You may notice
performance problems if this occurs.
.PP
JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL set at the queue level (lsb.queues)
overrides JOB_ACCEPT_INTERVAL set at the cluster level
(lsb.params).
.SS Default
.BR
1
.SH JOB_DEP_LAST_SUB
.BR
.SS Description
.BR
Used only with job dependency scheduling.
.PP
If set to 1, whenever dependency conditions use a job name that
belongs to multiple jobs, openlava evaluates only the most recently
submitted job.
.PP
Otherwise, all the jobs with the specified name must satisfy the
dependency condition.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.SH JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBJOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME=\fR\fIincrement\fR\fB/\fR\fIinterval
\fR
.SS Description
.BR
JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME enables automatic job priority escalation
when MAX_USER_PRIORITY is also defined.
.SS Valid Values
.BR
\fIincrement\fR
.IP
Specifies the value used to increase job priority every \fIinterval\fR
minutes. Valid values are positive integers.

.RE
.PP
\fIinterval\fR
.IP
Specifies the frequency, in minutes, to \fIincrement\fR job priority.
Valid values are positive integers.

.RE
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.SS Example
.BR
JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME=3/20
.IP
Specifies that every 20 minute \fIinterval\fR \fIincrement\fR to job priority
of pending jobs by 3.

.RE
.SS See Also
.BR
MAX_USER_PRIORITY
.SH JOB_SPOOL_DIR
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR

\fBJOB_SPOOL_DIR =\fR \fIdir\fR
.SS Description
.BR

Specifies the directory for buffering batch standard output and standard
error for a job
.PP
When JOB_SPOOL_DIR is defined, the standard output and standard
error for the job is buffered in the specified directory.
.PP
Except for \fBbsub -is\fR and \fBbsub -Zs\fR, if JOB_SPOOL_DIR is not
accessible or does not exist, output is spooled to the default job output
directory .lsbatch.
.PP
For \fBbsub -is\fR and \fBbsub -Zs\fR, JOB_SPOOL_DIR must be readable and
writable by the job submission user, and it must be shared by the
master host, the submission host, and the execution host. If the
specified directory is not accessible or does not exist, \fBbsub -is\fR and
\fBbsub -Zs\fR cannot write to the default directory and the job will fail.
.PP
As openlava runs jobs, it creates temporary directories and files under
JOB_SPOOL_DIR. By default, openlava removes these directories and files
after the job is finished. See \fBbsub\fR(\fB1\fR) for information about job
submission options that specify the disposition of these files.
.PP
On UNIX, specify an absolute path. For example:

.PP
JOB_SPOOL_DIR=/home/share/lsf_spool

.PP
JOB_SPOOL_DIR can be any valid path up to a
maximum length of 256 characters. This maximum path length includes
the temporary directories and files that openlava Batch creates as jobs run.
The path you specify for JOB_SPOOL_DIR should be as short as
possible to avoid exceeding this limit.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.PP
Batch job output (standard output and standard error) is sent to the
.lsbatch directory on the execution host:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu On UNIX: $HOME/.lsbatch
.RE

.IP
If %HOME% is specified in the user environment, uses that
directory instead of %windir% for spooled output.
.SH JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR

\fBJOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL =\fR \fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.BR

Specifies the time interval in seconds between sending SIGINT,
SIGTERM, and SIGKILL when terminating a job. When a job is
terminated, the job is sent SIGINT, SIGTERM, and SIGKILL in sequence
with a sleep time of JOB_TERMINATE_INTERVAL between sending the
signals. This allows the job to clean up if necessary.
.SS Default
10
.SH LOAD_UPDATE_INTVL
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
LOAD_UPDATE_INTVL=\fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.PP
How often the MBD calls LIM to update the load and shared resource
information. Higher the interval and more sentive to load and resource
information changes the scheduler is.
.SS Default
15 seconds
.SH MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR

Enables automatic deletion of archived openlava accounting log files and
specifies the archive limit.
.SS Compatibility
.BR

ACCT_ARCHIVE_SIZE or ACCT_ARCHIVE_AGE should also be
defined.
.SS Example
.BR
MAX_ACCT_ARCHIVE_FILE=10
.PP
openlava maintains the current lsb.acct and up to 10 archives. Every time
the old lsb.acct.9 becomes lsb.acct.10, the old lsb.acct.10
gets deleted.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined (no deletion of lsb.acct.\fIn\fR files).
.SH MAX_JOB_ARRAY_SIZE
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_JOB_ARRAY_SIZE =\fR \fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Specifies the maximum index value of a job array that can be created
by a user for a single job submission. The maximum number of jobs in
a job array cannot exceed this value, and will be less if some index
values are not used (start, end, and step values can all be used to limit
the indices used in a job array).
.PP
A large job array allows a user to submit a large number of jobs to the
system with a single job submission.
.PP
Specify an integer value from 1 to 65534.
.SS Default
.BR
1000
.SH MAX_JOBID
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_JOBID=\fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The job ID limit. The job ID limit is the highest job ID that openlava will ever
assign, and also the maximum number of jobs in the system.
.PP
Specify any integer from 999999 to 9999999 (for practical purposes, any
seven-digit integer).
.SS Example
.BR
MAX_JOBID=1234567
.SS Default
.BR
999999
.SH MAX_JOB_NUM
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR

\fBMAX_JOB_NUM\fR \fB=\fR \fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The maximum number of finished jobs whose events are to be stored
in the lsb.events log file.
.PP
Once the limit is reached, MBD starts a new event log file. The old
event log file is saved as lsb.events.\fIn\fR, with subsequent sequence
number suffixes incremented by 1 each time a new log file is started.
Event logging continues in the new lsb.events file.
.SS Default
.BR

1000
.SH MAX_SBD_FAIL
.BR

.SS Syntax
.BR

\fBMAX_SBD_FAIL = \fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR

The maximum number of retries for reaching a non-responding slave
batch daemon, SBD.
.PP
The interval between retries is defined by MBD_SLEEP_TIME. If MBD
fails to reach a host and has retried MAX_SBD_FAIL times, the host is
considered unavailable. When a host becomes unavailable, MBD
assumes that all jobs running on that host have exited and that all
rerunnable jobs (jobs submitted with the \fBbsub\fR \fB-r\fR option) are
scheduled to be rerun on another host.
.SS Default
.BR
3
.SH MAX_SBD_CONNS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_SBD_CONNS = \fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The maximum number of files mbatchd can have open and connected
to sbatchd
.SH MAX_SCHED_STAY
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_SCHED_STAY = \fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The time in seconds the mbatchd has for scheduling pass.
.SS Default
.BR
3
.SH MAX_STREAM_RECORDS
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_STREAM_RECORDS=\fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Enables mbatchd to write job events data into a stream file
lsb.stream.0 located
in $LSB_SHAREDIR/logdir/stream. This is to allow a 3rd party
program to read and process job data in real time
without touching lsb.events files.

When mbatchd switches lsb.events file (i.e. renames the current event
file to lsb.events.1 and creates a new lsb.events file),
the 3rd party program is not informed for the change. As the result,
it is hard for the 3rd party program to rely on lsb.events file for
streaming job data. In addition, lsb.events files are critical in
the OpenLava system. It is not recommended for a 3rd party program
to touch them.

After writing number of records that is defined by
MAX_STREAM_RECORDS, the mbatchd writes an STREAM_END event,
closes the file lsb.stream.0, renames it to lsb.stream.1, and
creates a new lsb.stream.0 to conitnue writing job events.
The previous lsb.stream.1 is overridden.

The 3rd party program could call OpenLava C API lsb_geteventrec() to
read and parse records in lsb.stream.0.
The program should close the file after getting the event
STREAM_END, then open the file lsb.stream.0 again to continue reading.
.PP
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined. No stream files are created.
.SS See Also
lsb.events(5) lsb_geteventrec(3)
.SH MAX_USER_PRIORITY
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMAX_USER_PRIORITY=\fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Enables user-assigned job priority and specifies the maximum job
priority a user can assign to a job.
.PP
openlava administrators can assign a job priority higher than the specified
value.
.SS Compatibility
.BR
User-assigned job priority changes the behavior of \fBbtop\fR and \fBbbot\fR.
.SS Example
.BR
MAX_USER_PRIORITY=2.0
.PP
Specifies that 2.0 is the maximum job priority that can be specified by
a user.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined
.SS See Also
.BR
bsub, bmod, btop, bbot, JOB_PRIORITY_OVER_TIME
.SH MBD_SLEEP_TIME
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBMBD_SLEEP_TIME =\fR \fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The job dispatching interval; how often openlava tries to dispatch pending
jobs.
.SS Default
.BR
60
.SH PG_SUSP_IT
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBPG_SUSP_IT =\fR \fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The time interval that a host should be interactively idle (it > 0) before
jobs suspended because of a threshold on the pg load index can be
resumed.
.PP
This parameter is used to prevent the case in which a batch job is
suspended and resumed too often as it raises the paging rate while
running and lowers it while suspended. If you are not concerned with
the interference with interactive jobs caused by paging, the value of
this parameter may be set to 0.
.SS Default
.BR
2.0 (seconds)
.SH SBD_SLEEP_TIME
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBSBD_SLEEP_TIME =\fR \fIseconds\fR
.SS Description
.BR
The interval at which openlava checks the load conditions of each host, to
decide whether jobs on the host must be suspended or resumed.
.SS Default
.BR
30
.SH SHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR
.BR
.SS Syntax
.BR
\fBSHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR = \fR\fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
Determines the static shared resource update interval for the cluster.
.PP
Specify approximately how many times to update static shared
resources during one MBD sleep time period. The formula is:
.PP
\fIinterval\fR = MBD_SLEEP_TIME /
SHARED_RESOURCE_UPDATE_FACTOR
.PP
where the result of the calculation is truncated to an integer. The static
shared resource update interval is in seconds.
.SS Default
.BR
Undefined (all resources are updated only once, at the start of each
dispatch turn).
