.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsb.stream 5 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsb.stream\fR - OpenLava batch event stream files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR
.PP
.PP
The OpenLava job event information could be used by any 3rd party program to
read in stream for process and analysis.
.PP
The format of the file is the same as lsb.events. A 3rd party program can
use OpenLava API lsb_geteventrec() to read and parse job event records from
it.
.PP
To enable this, add the parameter MAX_STREAM_RECORDS into lsb.params to specify
the maximum number of records each lsb.stream file should contain.
.PP
Whenever a host, job, or queue changes status, a record is appended
to the stream file \fBlsb.stream.0\fR. The file is located in
LSB_SHAREDIR/logdir/stream, where \fBLSB_SHAREDIR\fR must be
defined in  lsf.conf(5). See mbatchd(8) for the description of
LSB_SHAREDIR.
.PP
.SH Fields
.BR
.PP
.PP
The fields of a record are the same as those in lsb.events.
The lsb.steam file introduces a new event type: STREAM_END
.SH STREAM_END
.BR
.PP
.PP
The end of the stream file. The mbatchd writes this event just before
switching the stream file. When this event appears, the program that reads
the stream file should close the file and open again.
.TP
Version number (%s)

.IP
The OpenLava version number

.TP
Event time (%d)

.IP
The time of the event

.TP
The maximum record (%d)

.IP
The maximum event record in this file, which should the same as specified
by MAX_STREAM_RECORDS in lsb.params

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.SS Related Topics:
.BR
.PP
.PP
lsb.events(5), lsb_geteventrec(3), lsb.params(5), and mbatchd(8)
.SS Files:
.BR
.PP
.PP
LSB_SHAREDIR/logdir/stream/lsb.stream.[01]
