.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH lsb.resources 5 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBlsb.resources\fR
.SS \fB\fROverview
.BR
.PP
.PP
The lsb.resources file contains configuration information for
resource allocation limits. This file is optional. All sections are
optional.
.SS Contents
.BR
.PP
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu Limit Section
.RE
.SH Limit Section
.BR
.PP
.SH Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Defines limits for the maximum amount of the specified resources that
must be available for jobs to start, and which resource consumers the limits apply to.
Limits are enforced during job resource allocation.
.PP
Consumer type:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu QUEUES or PER_QUEUE
.HP 2
\(bu USERS or PER_USER
.HP 2
\(bu PROJECTS or PER_PROJECT
.HP 2
\(bu HOSTS or PER_HOST
.RE
.PP
Resource type:
.RS
.HP 2
\(bu SLOTS
.HP 2
\(bu JOBS
.RE
.PP
After making any changes to lsb.resources,
run \fBbadmin\fR reconfig to reconfigure mbatchd.
.SH Limit Section Structure
.BR
.PP
.PP
Each limit definition begins with the line Begin Limit and ends with
the line End Limit. A limit section is defined in horizontal format.
Each row defines one consumer or resource. At least one consumer and
one resouce must be specified in a limit section.
.SH QUEUES or PER_QUEUE
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBQUEUES | PER_QUEUE\fR \fB=\fR \fIall\fR [~]\fIqueue_name\fR ...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
A space-separated list of queue names on which limits are enforced.
.PP
The list must contain valid queue names defined in \fBlsb.queues\fR.
.PP
Use the not operator (~) to exclude queues from the all specification in the limit.
This is useful if you have a large number of queues but only want to exclude
a few queues from the limit definition.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBQUEUES\fR \fB=\fR \fBpriority idle\fR
.SH USERS or PER_USER
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBUSERS | PER_USER\fR \fB=\fR \fIall\fR [~]\fIuser_name\fR ... | [~]\fIuser_group\fR ...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
A space-separated list of user names or user groups on which limits are enforced.
.PP
User names must be valid login names.
User group names can be OpenLava user groups or UNIX user groups.
UNIX user groups must be configured in \fBlsb.users\fR.
.PP
If a group contains a subgroup, the limit also applies
to each member in the subgroup recursively.
.PP
Use the not operator (~) to exclude users or user groups from the all specification in the limit.
This is useful if you have a large number of users but only want to exclude
a few users or groups from the limit definition.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBUSERS\fR \fB=\fR \fBall ~user1 ~user2\fR
.SH HOSTS or PER_HOST
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBHOSTS | PER_HOST\fR \fB=\fR \fIall\fR [~]\fIhost_name\fR ... | [~]\fIhost_group\fR ...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
A space-separated list of host names or host groups
defined in \fBlsb.hosts\fR on which limits are enforced.
.PP
If a group contains a subgroup, the limit also applies
to each member in the subgroup recursively.
.PP
Use the not operator (~) to exclude hosts from the all specification in the limit.
This is useful if you have a large cluster but only want to exclude
a few hosts from the limit definition.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBHOSTS\fR \fB=\fR \fBGroup1 ~hostA ~hostB ~hostC\fR
.SH PROJECTS or PER_PROJECT
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBPROJECTS | PER_PROJECT\fR \fB=\fR \fIall\fR [~]\fIproject_name\fR ...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
A space-separated list of project names on which limits are enforced.
.PP
Use the not operator (~) to exclude projects from the all specification in the limit.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBPROJECTS\fR \fB=\fR \fIall ~p1 ~p2 ~p3\fR
.SH SLOTS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBSLOTS\fR \fB=\fR \fIinteger\fR | \fIinteger\fR \fI[day:]hour[:minute]\fR ...
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Maximum number of job slots available to resource consumers.
.PP
Time window is optional. The limit is enforced only if current time falls within this time window.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBSLOTS\fR \fB=\fR \fI[20 09:00-17:00]\fR \fI[10 17:00-09:00]\fR
.SH JOBS
.BR
.PP
.SS Syntax
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBJOBS\fR \fB=\fR \fIinteger\fR
.SS Description
.BR
.PP
.PP
Maximum number of running or suspended (RUN, SSUSP, USUSP) jobs available to resource consumers.
.SS Default
.BR
.PP
.PP
Undefined.
.SS Example
.BR
.PP
.PP
\fBJOBS\fR \fB=\fR \fI20\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
lsf.cluster(5), lsf.conf(5), lsb.params(5),
lsb.hosts(5), lsb.users(5), lsb.queues(5)
busers(1), bugroup(1), bchkpnt(1), nice(1), getgrnam(3),
getrlimit(2), bmgroup(1), bqueues(1), bhosts(1),
bsub(1), lsid(1), mbatchd(8), badmin(8)
