.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH bgadd 1 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBbgadd\fR - creates job groups 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR
.PP
\fBbgadd\fR [\fB-L\fR limit] \fIjob_group_name\fR
.PP
\fBbgadd\fR [\fB-h\fR | \fB-V\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR
.PP
.PP
Creates a job group with the job group name specified by \fIjob_group_name\fR.
.PP
You must provide full group path name for the new job group. The
last component of the path is the name of the new group to be
created.
.PP
You do not need to create the parent job group before you create
a sub-group under it. If no groups in the job group hierarchy
exist, all groups are created with the specified hierarchy.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.BR
.PP
.TP
\fB-L\fR \fIlimit\fR
.IP
Specifies the maximum number of concurrent job slots allowed to
run under the job group (including child groups). The option limits
the number of started jobs (RUN, SSUSP, USUSP) under the job group.
Specify a positive number between 0 and INT32_MAX-1 (2147483647).
If the specified
limit is zero, no jobs under the job group can run.
.IP
You cannot specify a limit for the root job group. The root job
group has no job limit. Job groups added with no limits specified
inherit any limits of existing parent job groups. The option only
limits the lowest level job group created.
.IP
By default, a job group has no job slot limit. Limits persist
across mbatchd restart or reconfiguration.
.TP
\fIjob_group_name\fR
.IP
Full path of the job group name.
.TP
\fB-h
\fR
.IP
Prints command usage to stderr and exits. 


.TP 
\fB-V
\fR
.IP
Prints OpenLava release version to stderr and exits. 

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.BR
.PP
Create a job group name mygroup under the root group /:
.PP
bgadd /mygroup
.PP
Create a job group named subgroup1 under job group /mygroup:
.PP
bgadd /mygroup/subgroup1
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
bgdel(1), bgmod(1), bjgroup(1)
