.ds ]W %
.ds ]L
.nh
.TH bgmod 1 "OpenLava Version 4.0 - Aug 2016"
.br
.SH NAME
\fBbgmod\fR - modifies job groups 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR
.PP
\fBbgmod\fR [\fB-L\fR limit | \fBLn\fR] \fIjob_group_name\fR
.PP
\fBbgmod\fR [\fB-h\fR | \fB-V\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR
.PP
.PP
Modifies the job group with the job group name specified by \fIjob_group_name\fR.
.PP
Only root, OpenLava administrators, the job group creator, or the creator
of the parent job groups can use bgmod to modify a job group limit.
.PP
You must provide full group path name for the modified job group. The
last component of the path is the name of the job group to be
modified.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.BR
.PP
.TP
\fB-L\fR \fIlimit\fR
.IP
Changes the slot limit of \fIjob_group_name\fR to the
specified \fIlimit\fR value. If the job group has parent
job groups, the new limit cannot exceed the limits of any
higher level job groups. Similarly, if the job group has
child job groups, the new value must be greater than any
limits on the lower level job groups.
.IP
\fIlimit\fR specifies the
maximum number of concurrent job slots allowed to
run under the job group (including child groups). The option limits
the number of started jobs (RUN, SSUSP, USUSP) under the job group.
Specify a positive number between 0 and INT32_MAX-1 (2147483647). If the specified
limit is zero, no jobs under the job group can run.
.IP
You cannot specify a limit for the root job group. The root job
group has no job limit. The option only limits the lowest level
job group specified.
.TP
\fB-Ln\fR
.IP
Removes the existing job limit for the job group. If the
job group has parent job groups, the job modified group
automatically inherits any limits from its direct parent
job group.
.TP
\fIjob_group_name\fR
.IP
Full path of the job group name.
.TP
\fB-h
\fR
.IP
Prints command usage to stderr and exits. 


.TP 
\fB-V
\fR
.IP
Prints OpenLava release version to stderr and exits. 

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.BR
.PP
Modify the limit of group /mygroup/subgroup/g1. It does not modify limits of
/mygroup or /mygroup/subgroup.
.PP
bgmod -L 5 /mygroup/subgroup/g1
.PP
To modify limits of /mygroup or /mygroup/subgroup, you need to specify
the exact group name:
.PP
bgmod -L 5 /mygroup
.PP
or
.PP
bgmod -L 5 /mygroup/subgroup1
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR
.PP
.PP
bgadd(1), bgdel(1), bjgroup(1)
